CONTRIBUTING.md: Add usual best practices suggest in peer-review as coding style (#11431)
os-autoinst/os-autoinst-distri-opensuse: CONTRIBUTING.md

* Use `my ($self) = @_;` for parameter parsing in methods when accessing the
  `$self` object. Do not parse any parameter if you do not need any.
* [DRY](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don't_repeat_yourself)
* Avoid `sleep()`: Do not use `sleep()` or simulate a sleep-like functionality.

>   This is introducing the risk of either unnecessarily wasting time or just

Reviewer: `s/is introducing/introduces/` or `would introduce`?

Author: thx, done

  shifting race conditions and making them even harder to investigate. You *can*
  use sleep but there are only very limited cases where is the best solution
  (e.g. yield threads in low-level system code). Here you have the classical
  problem in software design of
  [Synchronization](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Synchronization_(computer_science))

>   . sleep should not be used in place of proper synchronization methods.

Reviewer 2: nit: '.' should go to previous line.

Author: thx, done

  https://blogs.msmvps.com/peterritchie/2007/04/26/thread-sleep-is-a-sign-of-a-poorly-designed-program/
  is one of multiple references that explains this: "The original problem is
  likely a timing/synchronization issue, ignoring it by hiding it with
  Thread.Sleep is only going to delay the problem and make it occur in random,
  hard to reproduce ways." And if the problem does not occur at least time is
  wasted.
  We are waiting because some condition changes some time ... keyword(s) is/are
  *some time*. It is important to know the exact condition that the code should
  wait for and check for that instead of delaying program execution for an
  arbitrary amount of time. For openQA tests in general just try to do what you
  as a human user would also do. You would not look on your watch waiting for
  exactly 100s before you look at the screen again, right? :)

> * Avoid `is_tumbleweed()`: Our tests should always consider openSUSE Tumbleweed

Reviewer 3: Just a small comment here, as unfortunately Factory First workflow is not always followed, `is_tumbleweed` might appear attractive. Even though, decision made on version of the distribution doesn't scale well in general, as we get newer versions of the packages being available, as we could apply same mechanism of overrides, like we have for UI (see https://github.com/os-autoinst/os-autoinst-distri-opensuse/blob/master/ui-framework-documentation.md).
So just in case you want to add this point.

Other than that LGTM, and I somehow missed this PR originally.

Author: Good point. I know your pain regarding this topic :)
I will add the pointer to ui-framework-documentation.md

  as the default product without a version. That means any differing behaviour
  should have an explicit exclude rule for the "older products" and potentially
  an explanation why the behaviour should differ. You can try to negate the logic
  check.

> * Consider a corresponding Tumbleweed test: Because of

Reviewer: I'd say that just `considering` is too weak. I've seen numerous times where tests were added which only targeted SLE for no reason whatsoever. What about "The test must also run on Tumbleweed unless ..."?

Author: Well, with "consider" I meant to thoroughly think about if this applies or not. The following line already states a pretty strong "we should test against Tumbleweed by default (with exceptions…)". And a plead after that even with "So please check …". I consider – here used in different meaning ;) – your wording to be inconsistent with the style of using an imperative word in most other practices. Thinking about it I am not sure what is better, I thought of "Conduct a corresponding Tumbleweed test" but I like it less because there can be good reasons where a Tumbleweed test is not applicable as explained in the text and I don't want to water down the rules by stating a rule that can not be followed when it says "Conduct …".

Reviewer: > Well, with "consider" I meant to thoroughly think about if this applies or not.

I get that, but the "thouroughly" part is not really written down here. Currently it seems more like a "If you have time, please also ..." to me.

> The following line already states a pretty strong "we should test against Tumbleweed by default (with exceptions…)"

A "pretty strong" "should"? :P

> I consider – here used in different meaning ;) – your wording to be inconsistent with the style of using an imperative word in most other practices.

Your diff starts with "Avoid `sleep()`". That's IMO much stronger than "consider" or "should" already.

> Thinking about it I am not sure what is better, I thought of "Conduct a corresponding Tumbleweed test" but I like it less because there can be good reasons where a Tumbleweed test is not applicable as explained in the text and I don't want to water down the rules by stating a rule that can not be followed when it says "Conduct …".

I agree, but a "unless you have a good reason, like software not being in Tumbeweed or the case not being relevant otherwise" ought to take care of that. If it's not possible to put this in words, then it'll be hard to get everyone to agree and follow it.

Author: Yes, you are right. Trust me, I will create a specific PR to clarify that as I don't want to "sneak in" policy changes when the PR has already been approved by so many in the current state.

Author: please see https://github.com/os-autoinst/os-autoinst-distri-opensuse/pull/11546/commits/6d30a33eea2ec88f450f7772869beaebbedb1256

  [Factory First](https://opensource.suse.com/suse-open-source-policy)
  we should test against Tumbleweed by default (with exceptions for special
  packages, of course). So please check if your code changes work with a current

>   Tumbleweed snapshot and then add to the according schedule for Tumbleweed

Reviewer 4: I'd rather add packages and extended testing, unless there's good motive

Author: sorry, I don't understand. Do you mean

```suggestion
  we should test against Tumbleweed by default (with exceptions for special
  packages and extended testing, unless there's good motive). So please check if your code changes work with a current
  Tumbleweed snapshot and then add to the according schedule for Tumbleweed
```

?

Because then I would wonder about the "extended testing". It is correct that reality is that the SLE testing scope is much broader than Tumbleweed but this is what I try to cover with "by default". Maybe we can keep this PR as is as baseline considering that the other changes I can already do and as there so many approvals already :) Then you can add a PR and we come up with a better wording for this specific section

  tests, e.g. main.pm
* Avoid "dead code": Don't add disabled code as nobody but you will understand
  why this is not active. Better leave it out and keep in your local git
  repository, either in `git stash` or a temporary "WIP"-commit.

> * Details in commit messages: The commit message should have enough details,

Reviewer 5: Hm, I'm a bit torn on this one to be honest. While `git blame` is very effective at showing you past commits, it fails pretty quickly once functions get moved around. Then you quickly loose all the past context and so I think that information relevant to the code itself **must** stay in the actual code.

Reviewer 6: I personally don't have much faith for commit history and fully support idea of putting more info into  comments in code , function/variable/class names etc. . But on other hand I don't see any contradiction with what written here . Having some info in commit message should not stop you from doing something else to improve general knowledge about codebase

Reviewer 2: I'm actually a big fan having having meaningful git commit message (some people put a lot of info into PR text box, which will be lost if we migrate from github to some other git hosting).

Author: @dcermak I agree that if the source can not explain itself then comments in the source should describe the choices made, to answer the question "why is the code like this". The git commit message should describe "why did we change it" which I don't see as contradiction.

Reviewer 5: @okurz I don't disagree with you at all here. What I think could be clearer here though, is what should go into the commit message and what should be added as a comment (and sometimes it even makes sense to put some historical info into the comments, as very few people actually do a `git blame` before they start fixing "obvious" issues in a test that were added for a reason).

Author: Ok, How about an additional rule just after the above one:

```
* Add comments to the source code if the code is not self-explanatory:
  Comments in the source code should describe the choices made, to answer the
  question "why is the code like this". The git commit message should describe
  "why did we change it".
```

I added that now in https://github.com/os-autoinst/os-autoinst-distri-opensuse/pull/11546/commits/af4f93d4757cb556a4f3a14a2ba01e78379031ae

  e.g. what issue is fixed, why this needs to change, to which versions of which
  product it applies, link to a bug or a feature entry, the choices you made,
  etc. Also see https://commit.style/ or http://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/
  as a helpful guide how to write good commit messages.

>   Keep in mind that the text in the github  pull request description is only

Reviewer 2: nit: extra space in *github  pull*

Author: *phew*, thx. I would be embarrassed if we would not have fixed that ;)
